The Project Gutenberg EBook of War Dogs of the World War, by John I. Anderson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: War Dogs of the World War

Author: John I. Anderson

Release Date: August 30, 2016 [EBook #52934]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR DOGS OF THE WORLD WAR ***




Produced by Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)






[Illustration: Title Page]




                                War Dogs
                                _of the_
                               World War




                            Copyright, 1919
                          By John I. Anderson
                                New York

                  ------------------------------------




                                 MY DOG


            I have no dog, but it must be
            Somewhere there’s one belongs to me—
            A little chap with wagging tail,
            And dark brown eyes that never quail,
            But look you through, and through, and through,
            With love unspeakable, but true.

            Somewhere it must be, I opine,
            There is a little dog of mine
            With cold black nose that sniffs around
            In search of what things may be found
            In pocket or some nook hard by,
            Where I have hid them from his eye.

            Somewhere my doggie pulls and tugs
            The fringes of rebellious rugs,
            Or with the mischief of the pup
            Chews all my shoes and slippers up,
            And when he’s done it to the core,
            With eyes all eager pleads for more.

            Somewhere upon his hinder legs,
            My little doggie sits and begs,
            And in a wistful minor tone
            Pleads for the pleasures of the bone—
            I pray it be his owner’s whim
            To yield and grant the same to him!

            Somewhere a little dog doth wait,
            It may be by some garden gate,
            With eyes alert, and tail attent—
            You know the kind of tail that’s meant—
            With stores of yelps of glad delight
            To bid me welcome home at night.
                                    —_John Kendrick Bangs._




                           ------------------

                           To those who love
                         dogs, those faithful
                         friends of mankind, I
                         commend this booklet.

                                     The Author

                           ------------------

[Illustration: Dogs trained at Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris, for
service in the French Army.]

                  ------------------------------------




                            War Dogs of the
                               World War




                             To The Reader:


In the city of Neuilly, just across the River Seine from Paris, lives a
remarkable woman, Countess Mary Yourkevitch, a Russian by birth, French
by adoption. She has for many years devoted her life and spent her
income in the interest of the friendless horse, dog and cat. No
provisions being made by the French Government and municipal
authorities, these homeless dumb animals are left to shift for
themselves in case of sickness or distress. She organized the Blue Cross
Society of France and for many years has been the President of this
Society. She secured grounds in a secluded spot of Neuilly and thereon
erected suitable buildings for the housing and care of her homeless and
suffering friends. Previously a social leader, she has during these
latter years relinquished all social functions and thrown heart and soul
into this commendable work of relief.

In 1914, when France was drawn into what was to become a world war, she
set about to aid her adopted country. Dogs of all breeds and
descriptions were gathered into the Refuge in Neuilly. A systematic
training school was organized to fit these dogs for war work, some for
the Red Cross, some for trench work, and still others to become
messengers to carry important documents and light burdens. It was most
essential that a dog for each division of this work should be thoroughly
trained, and after this was accomplished the work became one of routine
and practice. The trained dogs became the instructors, and it was a
stupid pupil indeed that did not become more or less proficient in the
work set for it in the course of a week or ten days. To watch this
training process is most interesting. A green dog, that is, one without
any training, is attached by a short lead to the dog instructor. The
command is given to perform a certain duty and at once the trained dog
is off on his mission, pulling the untrained dog with him. This is
repeated time and again until the pupil learns the word of command and
the execution of the same. It is but a question of a few days until the
green dog has learned his lessons, and he himself becomes an instructor
to some new arrival at the home.

Six hundred dogs were thus instructed for their various war duties and
sent to the front. The war is now at an end, and while many of these
faithful creatures paid the supreme sacrifice, hundreds are left, some
crippled for life, and all in need of proper care for the balance of
their lives. During my three months’ stay in Paris following the
armistice, dozens of these dogs were returned to the Countess to be
cared for. Knowing the burden placed upon her, both in a financial and
physical sense, I am writing this story of the heroic deeds of these
wonderful animals. Every penny derived from the sale of this booklet
will be devoted to assist this noble work of the Countess Yourkevitch of
Neuilly, France.

                  ------------------------------------




                    THE DOG’S MANIFOLD DUTIES AT THE
                              BATTLE FRONT


The stories of the devotion of dogs to their masters under the most
trying conditions of the battlefront form one of the epics of the great
struggle.

It is said that there were about ten thousand dogs employed at the
battle front at the time of the signing of the armistice. They ranged
from Alaskan malamute to St. Bernard, and from Scotch collie to fox
terrier. Many of them were placed on the regimental rosters like
soldiers. In the trenches they shared all the perils and hardships of
the soldiers themselves, and drew their turns in the rest camps in the
same fashion. But they were always ready to go back and it is not
recorded that a single one of them ever failed when it came to “going
over the top.”

The Red Cross dogs rendered invaluable service in feeding and aiding the
wounded. Each one carried a first-aid kit either strapped to its collar
or in a small saddle pouch. When they found a soldier who was
unconscious, they were taught to bring back his helmet, handkerchief or
some other small article as a token of discovery. Many of them learned
wholly to ignore the dead, but to bark loudly whenever they came upon a
wounded man.

Not only did the dog figure gloriously as a messenger of mercy in the
war, but did his bit nobly as a sentinel in the trenches. Mounting guard
at a listening post for long hours at a stretch, ignoring danger with
all the stolidness of a stoic, yet alert every moment, he played an
heroic role.

Full many a time it was the keen ear of a collie that first caught the
sound of the approaching raiding party. And did he bark? How natural it
would have been for him to do so! But no, a bark or a growl might have
told the raiders they were discovered, and thus have prevented the
animal’s own forces from giving the foe a counter-surprise. So he wagged
his tail nervously—a canine adaptation of the wig-wag system which his
master interpreted and acted upon, to the discomfiture of the enemy.

Often whole companies were saved because the dog could reach further
into the distance with his senses than could the soldiers themselves.

It was found that many dogs would do patrol and scout duty with any
detachment. But there was another type of dog worker needed in the
trenches—the liason dog, trained to seek his master whenever turned
loose. Amid exploding shells, through veritable fields of hell, he would
crawl and creep, with only one thought—to reach his master. Nor would he
stop until the object of his search was attained. Many a message of
prime importance he thus bore from one part of the field to another, and
nought but death or overcoming wound could turn him aside.—The National
Geographic Magazine.

                  ------------------------------------




                             THE MESSENGER


Early in the war the Germans realized the importance of gaining
possession of the French Coast of the English Channel, and thus cut off
communications with England and prevent the landing of English soldiers
on French soil.

The Germans selected Ypres as the point of their offensive and the
English were strongly resisting the drive. Men on both sides were being
mowed down by shell and shrapnel. For many hours the incessant conflict
raged, at one time the Germans gaining vantage positions but to give way
before the bull-dog tenacity of the English. The strong reinforcements
on the German side convinced the commanding officer of the English
defensive that it must be a question of short duration until the Germans
would achieve the desired objective, and they (the English) would be
compelled to retreat. The situation was a critical one and unless the
English were reinforced, the day would be lost and the enemy would have
a clear way to Calais.

Lying four miles to the rear were two divisions of the English army
ready to march to their assistance if required. Quick action was
necessary, as every moment was golden. For a courier to cover this
distance of four miles and reach the commanding officer of the reserves,
close to an hour must be required, and no one could tell what this hour
might mean to the ever weakening defensive. A message was quickly
written and a messenger dog called. The urgent call for assistance was
placed in the bag attached to the dog’s collar and he was given the word
to go. Just twenty minutes elapsed from the time the dog was entrusted
with the message until the officer in command of the reserves had read
the hurried call. The camp resounded with the bugle call “To Arms” and
in ninety minutes from the time the message was despatched, the front
formation of the reinforcing divisions was in active work. The Germans
were driven back with terrible slaughter, and the day was won for the
English.

An English journal in telling this story comments on the event as
follows: “Who can tell what might have been the outcome of a victory for
the enemy at this crucial moment.” Hundreds of other instances could be
recited to show the vital importance of the war dogs’ work.

                  ------------------------------------




                                 BIJOU


At the breaking out of the war there lived in the little town of Méru,
twenty-five miles distant from Paris, a man named Jacques Thallant. He
had for a daily companion a dog called Bijou, just a common every-day
dog of the French poodle breed.

Jacques was among the first to offer his services to his country and was
accepted. He requested the privilege of taking Bijou with him and his
request was granted. Jacques was sent into active service and Bijou soon
accustomed himself to trench life, and with the soldiers shared their
army privations. Frequently Jacques was placed on picket duty and Bijou
was company for him during the long tedious nights of watching.

Picket duty is one of the most hazardous duties for the soldier. During
the day the enemy locates the picket posts and it requires but little
practice for a sharpshooter to so train his gun as to do most effective
and fatal work at night by shooting at random. A cold, dismal night
found Jacques at a picket post with Bijou at his feet, imparting warmth
as well as companionship. This night proved to be the last for poor
Jacques, as my story will tell. A shot rang out—a bullet sped on its
deadly errand—Jacques fell fatally wounded. His life blood was flowing
rapidly, and his mind turned to his wife and children in far away Méru.
He searched for paper and pencil and found in his pocket a letter he had
that day received from his loved companion at home. Hastily he scrawled
on the envelope the story of his condition, and with weakening hands he
placed the same in the pouch attached to Bijou’s collar, and in failing
voice commanded him to go home to his mistress. In the morning Jacques
was found cold in death, still grasping the pencil in his hand. Search
was made for the dog but he could not be found, and the record was made
“Jacques Thallant shot while on duty.”

Three hundred and more kilometers covered the distance between Verdun
and Méru. Early in the morning of the third day after the soul of
Jacques had passed beyond, Mme. Thallant heard a noise without the house
and hurriedly dressing, reached the door just in time to see the
faithful dog’s death-glazing eyes brighten for an instant, and then with
a convulsive quiver his limbs relaxed in death. On examination a bullet
wound was found in his groin and then they knew the agony he must have
endured in fulfilling his master’s last command. A stray bullet
doubtlessly dealt the death blow as he sped to do his master’s bidding.
For two days and three nights he dragged himself onward with the
entrusted message, without food, without rest, true to the trust imposed
in him, until his work was accomplished and then——

My old friend Hildevert Labrosse told me the story with tears in his
eyes, and together we walked down the narrow street leading to the home
of Widow Thallant. He showed me the gate through which the dog had
dragged himself and up the walk to the house, and the threshold of the
door on which he died. They buried the faithful creature in the corner
of the yard near a shed where he was wont to sleep at night and where
his ever faithful eyes could watch over the safety of his master’s
house. A small headboard with the simple inscription “Bijou, Faithful
Unto Death” marks the last resting place of Jacques’ friend.

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: Monte, the Picket.]

                           “MONTE” THE PICKET


Thousands of soldiers have suffered from shell shock, which proved to be
one of the most trying conditions for the hospital nurses—nerves keyed
to the highest tension for days at a time snapped under the whizzing and
bursting shells which rained destruction in their midst. Horses
frequently suffered from the ill effects of this trying ordeal, but it
was a rare occurrence for the dog to be affected by these conditions.

In the month of January following the armistice, two French soldiers
appeared at the Refuge accompanied by a collie dog. This dog’s home had
been in Montreuil, a small town near Paris, and the soldiers had
nicknamed him “Monte.” For four years Monte had served at the front as a
picket dog. His nightly service was to accompany a soldier assigned to
picket duty, and there through the long night he remained, ever alert to
impending dangers. His keen scent and hearing enabled him to detect the
slightest suspicious movement on the part of the enemy, and many a brave
soldier’s life was saved by his timely warning. The bristling hairs on
his body, his erect ears, the swishing of his tail, quietly conveyed to
his master the approach of the enemy. The whistling, deadly bullet was
beyond his ken and fourteen times in six weeks Monte returned to the
lines alone. Each time they found the picket either killed or wounded.

After four years of this nerve-racking service, Monte was mustered out
and returned with the two surviving soldiers of the original company. He
was suffering from shell shock and returned to the Refuge as a patient.
It was really pitiful to watch him in his sufferings. Worn out from
physical weariness he would drop off into a light sleep, when suddenly
he would bound to his feet, ears pointed and every individual hair on
his body standing erect. This was followed by severe trembling
indicative of shattered nerves.

I made many attempts to photograph Monte, but with futile results. I
finally hit upon a plan to place him on a park bench and was partially
successful in obtaining a fairly good likeness, as you will note by the
above picture.

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: “Watchful Waiting.”]

                           “TOBY” THE RATTER


Of the many annoyances and discomforts of camp and trench life, the rat
is the most unwelcome. This species of the rodent family infests these
places and not only becomes a pest, but a menace to the health of the
soldier. Many a brave man has lost his life from the poisonous bite of
these pesky and annoying creatures. Every effort is made to rid the camp
of their presence. Of all breeds of dogs, the fox terrier has been found
the most effective in the destruction of rats, and many of these dogs
have earned wonderful reputations as “ratters.”

In the Refuge in Neuilly there is a dog named Toby, who has passed into
the professional rat-killer class. During his three years’ service at
the front, four thousand or more “dead ones” have been marked up to his
credit, and all previous records have been smashed.

That the rat was not the only enemy that Toby encountered during his
service for his country, is evidenced by his _gimp_. A stray bullet
snipped one of his front feet off just below the knee, and now Toby is
listed as “wounded but not inactive.” He is the most agile three-footed
tyke I ever saw, and sets the pace for all the other dogs in their
gambols about the grounds.

The soldiers taught Toby many tricks, and on command he says his
prayers, rolls over, plays dead, speaks (barks), sings and performs
other “stunts” that are truly wonderful.

[Illustration: Toby, Ready for the Onslaught.]

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: Dick, the Guide.]

                            “DICK” THE GUIDE


Just a short distance from the Refuge for War Dogs in Neuilly, is
located the Soldiers’ Home for the Blind. This is a spacious building
surrounded by ample grounds containing shrubbery, trees and flowers.
Under the spreading trees are comfortable benches for the accommodation
of the occupants of the Home. Hundreds of soldiers, rendered totally
blind during the war, are cared for, and spend the days wandering
through the grounds and enjoying the comforts that such conditions
afford.

For two years, Dick, the subject of this sketch, has served as a guide
for these soldiers. He is a fine specimen of the French poodle, large in
size, gentle in disposition and perfectly familiar with the duties
expected of him. Early in the morning he reports for duty, and from then
on until the close of day he carefully leads and cares for the sightless
subjects delegated to his charge. It is no unusual sight to see two men
or more, arm in arm, being guided by Dick through various parts of the
grounds. Sometimes you meet them picking their way through the adjacent
streets, Dick always on the alert for their safety.

I had on frequent occasions to pass Dick on my way to and from the dog
hospital on Rue Chauveau, and in time we became great friends. Just
before leaving for my home in America, I paid a final visit to my dog
friends in Neuilly, and was surprised to find Dick in the hospital
recovering from some temporary dog ailment. He joyfully welcomed me as
an old friend, and I expressed a wish to the Countess that I might bring
him to America. She replied that Dick had certainly done his bit for his
country and that it was high time he enjoyed a little of real dog life,
and willingly consented that I should have him. The short time until my
departure prevented me from obtaining the necessary permit to land him
in the United States. The Countess generously offered to care for him
until such time as proper arrangements could be made for his trip from
Paris to New York. Before leaving I requested the Countess’ lady
secretary to instruct Dick in the English language, so that he would be
familiar with the speech of his adopted country. Shortly afterwards I
received the following card from this young lady: “I told Dick a few
days ago that his master in America wished him to learn English, and
Dick replied, ‘Tell my master to learn French, as I am a French dog.’”—a
very clever reply from either lady or dog.

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: Leon, a Red Cross Dog.]

                                  LEON


Perhaps the most striking dog in the Home was Leon, a wonderful mastiff,
who towered head and shoulders above his companions and was really
majestic when strolling around the grounds. He seemed to realize that he
occupied a position just a few points above the ordinary dog, and his
associates seemed to think the same. Leon was a Red Cross dog, and his
work during the war was wholly in the line of Red Cross work. He had
been awarded the War Cross Star for his work in this capacity.

He is possessed of what is known as a “glass eye,” frequently seen in
the horse, but rarely found in other animals. One eye is the ordinary
brown color, while the other is a light blue color, together producing a
very striking effect.

Only dogs of more than ordinary intelligence are fitted for the varied
branches of Red Cross work. Not only are they required to carry first
relief to the wounded, but also to report back to headquarters, bringing
with them evidences of wounded soldiers in distress. When they found a
soldier who was unconscious, they were taught to bring back some article
of the wearing apparel of the man as evidence of his discovery.
Sometimes it would be a handkerchief or his helmet, or in cases where
these could not be obtained, the dog has been known to gnaw off a button
from the unconscious man’s coat and offer this in evidence of his find.
Bursting shells and whistling bullets were wholly ignored by these
animal heroes as they went about their mission.

The following story was told me by Mrs. Rose Chilton, a Red Cross nurse
from New Orleans, La., which illustrates the surprising intelligence and
sagacity of these dogs. “All day long a destructive battle had raged and
our boys had suffered severely from the raining shot. Leon was busy here
and there with his kit bag stored with first aid supplies. Frequently he
had returned to headquarters for fresh supplies, or to bring back some
token of a wounded man in distress. Late in the night he returned
carrying in his mouth a soiled photograph. The picture showed a splendid
young man in khaki. On either knee he held a lovely, smiling child, the
younger about two years of age, the elder four, while at his side sat a
sweet faced woman, with one hand resting lovingly on the boy soldier’s
shoulder. These three represented the sacrifice the boy had made when he
enlisted in a cause to make his home sacred and safe for all time to
come. A searching party was at once despatched to bring back the wounded
soldier. Leon, with unerring instinct, led the way and shortly brought
the rescuing party to the object of their search. The boy had been
severely wounded in the head, and was in an unconscious condition. He
had evidently wandered some distance from the point where the accident
had happened, as he was without a helmet and his uniform was soiled by
mud and earth. Leon, finding no ready token for his identification, had
torn open his blouse and from an inner pocket extracted the identifying
photograph. Everything was done for the sorely wounded boy, but a few
hours later his spirit took its flight to the unknown shores beyond. Out
in the State of Illinois a widowed wife and two fatherless children
mourn the loss of husband and father.”

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: Wolf, Police Dog.]

                                  WOLF


The advisability of using dogs in the war was under consideration by the
United States War Department for many months. Provision had been made
for the training of these dogs, and in fact many had been mustered into
service, when a final decision was reached to eliminate their use.

In 1914, just a few weeks before war was declared, I purchased in the
city of Neuremberg, Bavaria, a fine specimen of the German Police dog.
The reader can see by the picture of this animal that he was by no means
an ordinary dog, but one of the finest specimens of this famous breed.
Wolf stood 28½ inches from fore feet to shoulder blades and weighed 170
pounds.

Through a fellow member of the Police Dog Club of America, who had been
commissioned by the U. S. Government as official trainer, I had Wolf
enlisted for war service and he was sent to Athens, Georgia, to complete
his training. After the War Department concluded to debar war dog
service, he was turned over to the French War Department, and in
December, 1917, was sent to France. In June, 1918, I received a picture
of Wolf, showing him in camp in company with two French soldiers,
apparently enjoying the novel experience of fighting with the enemies of
his native land.

During my stay in France following the armistice, I spent many days and
dollars in my efforts to discover the whereabouts of my old friend Wolf,
but all without avail. Great difficulties were encountered in locating
missing men, and naturally my task to find a dog was much greater. On my
return to France I shall continue my efforts and still hope to meet with
success. When I find him—and I pray that I may—Wolf shall spend his
declining days in the enjoyment of everything a dog likes best, and when
his days are ended, he shall have bestowed upon him a decent burial and
the lasting memories of his master.

                  ------------------------------------




[Illustration: Huskie, Alaskan Dog.]

                              THE “HUSKIE”


During the summer of 1918 I spent two months in Alaska, and while there
became familiar with the characteristics of the Alaskan Eskimo dog.

Travel during the long sunless winter season would be next to impossible
were it not for these tireless sled dogs. Summer is their vacation
period and they wander through the villages, camps and mountains, much
as the ordinary farm or country dog, spending the long hours of constant
sunshine playing and sleeping. From the moment of the first fall of
snow, play and sleep, become—if a dog ever thinks—but a thing of memory,
as work is then the order of the day and dogs instead of horses
transport burdens of every description. To the hustling Alaskan, a team
of sled dogs is the most important asset in his possession.

With the approach of winter, the armies of the Allies were confronted
with a very serious problem, namely, how to supply the troops in the
mountain camps and trenches with sufficient food supply. Motors and
horses were alike powerless to overcome these conditions. Falling snows
and howling blizzards made the work of provisioning these soldiers an
impossibility. Hundreds of dogs were sent from Alaska and Labrador, and
these hitched to sleds loaded with food and munitions made their way
through the mountain passes and over pinnacles, relieving the threatened
destruction of thousands by starvation.

Ernest Harold Baynes, in the National Geographic Magazine, has this to
say relative to the work accomplished by these dogs. “One woman brought
back to America a Croix de Guerre awarded by France to her intrepid
teams of sled dogs. The occasion that won them that honor was their
salvation of a stormbound, foe pressed outpost in the French Alps.
Despatch bearers had been sent back repeatedly, but no succoring answer
came, for the messengers were overwhelmed as they passed through the
blinding blizzard. At last matters became desperate. The foe was
pressing his advantage with dash and courage, and nothing but quick
action could save the situation. So Lieutenant Rene Haas hitched his
dogs to a light sled and started through a blizzard before which human
flesh, in spite of the ‘urge’ of a consecrated patriotism, had failed.
In ‘sweepstakes racing time’ they covered the trip down the mountain and
over a perilous pass to the main army post. There twenty-eight dogs were
hitched to fourteen light sleds, and these were loaded with ammunition.
Back over the forbidding trail they went, under an artillery fire,
facing a bitter wind, and plowing through blinding clouds of snow. On
the fifth day at sunrise the panting malamutes reached the outpost,
their burden of ammunition was rushed to the gunners, and the mountain
was saved from the foe.”

We must all agree that the “Huskie” takes his place of honor among the
many other species of dogdom who did his bit in the World War, and if it
is true that he is a lineal descendant of the timber wolf, we must even
have a higher respect for this much maligned animal.

                  ------------------------------------




                         AN INTERESTING LETTER


During my stay in France I wrote a number of letters to the press
relating to the work of the Blue Cross Society of France, and in return
received many interesting letters from America, and in many instances
donations for the Refuge.

One of the most pleasing was the following, which demonstrates the heart
and spirit of the boys and girls of our great and generous country.

                   Livingston Avenue, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.

               John I. Anderson,

                   Continental Hotel, Paris, France.

               Dear Sir:

               Your appeal for the wounded dogs now being
               cared for in the hospital in Neuilly,
               France, which appeared in the New York
               Globe, was brought to the attention of the
               children of the Presbyterian Church of
               this town, and they decided to do
               something themselves to raise a little
               money.

               Five youngsters equipped their dogs with
               white blankets and collection boxes and
               spent Saturday asking dog lovers to give
               something for the little war sufferers.
               When the boxes were opened they found
               $18.00, which I am forwarding to you. A
               donation of $2.50 was made by the Dramatic
               Club of the Presbyterian Church, bringing
               the total to $20.50, for which amount my
               check is drawn to your order.

               The children would very much appreciate
               any particulars which you can furnish them
               regarding these “little soldiers.”

                                   Very truly yours,

                                       Margaret M. Link.

               February 25, 1919.

This help from America has wonderfully encouraged the Countess in her
philanthropic work among the crippled, sick and needy dumb animals, and
it is her desire to extend the work to other parts of France, where
inestimable good can be accomplished.

                  ------------------------------------




                    SENATOR VEST’S ADDRESS TO A JURY


A poor man in the State of Missouri owned a dog, his constant companion.
A churlish neighbor, without provocation, killed the dog. Too poor to
prosecute the offender, the man was without redress. United States
Senator Vest of Missouri was informed of the circumstances and at once
offered his services, without pay, to prosecute the case. The offender
was summoned to court and the following plea was made before a jury of
twelve men. Without leaving their seats these twelve men unanimously
agreed upon a verdict of a $500.00 penalty against the defendant. The
following was Senator Vest’s address to the jury:

“Gentlemen of the Jury: The best friend a man has in this world may turn
against him and become his enemy. His son or daughter that he has reared
with loving care may prove ungrateful. Those who are nearest and dearest
to us, those whom we trust with our happiness and our good name, may
become traitors to their faith. The money that a man has he may lose. It
flies away from him, perhaps when he needs it most. A man’s reputation
may be sacrificed in a moment of ill-considered action. The people who
are prone to fall on their knees to do us honor when success is with us
may be the first to throw the stone of malice when failure settles its
cloud upon our heads. The one absolute, unselfish friend that a man can
have in this selfish world, the one that never deserts him, the one that
never proves ungrateful or treacherous is his dog.

“Gentlemen of the Jury: A man’s dog stands by him in prosperity and
poverty, in health and in sickness. He will sleep on the cold ground,
where the wintry winds blow and the snow drives fiercely, if only he can
be near his master’s side. He will kiss the hand that has no food to
offer, he will lick the wounds and sores that come in encounter with the
roughness of the world. He guards the sleep of his pauper master as if
he were a prince. When all other friends desert he remains. When riches
take wings and reputation falls to pieces he is as constant in his love
as the sun in its journey through the heavens. If fortune drives the
master forth an outcast in the world, friendless and homeless, the
faithful dog asks no higher privilege than that of accompanying him to
guard against danger, to fight against his enemies, and when the last
scene of all comes, and death takes the master in its embrace and his
body is laid away in the cold ground, no matter if all other friends
pursue their way, there by his graveside will the noble dog be found,
his head between his paws, his eyes sad but open and in alert
watchfulness, faithful and true even to death.”

                  ------------------------------------




                       THE SOLDIER AND “JIM-DOG”

                      By Margaret E. Sangster, Jr.


          He wasn’t, well, a fancy kind o’ dog—
          Not Jim!
          But, oh, I sorter couldn’t seem ter help
          A-lovin’ him.
          He always seemed ter understand,
          He’d rub his nose against my hand
          If I was feelin’ blue or sad,
          Or if my thoughts was pretty bad;
          An’ how he’d bark an’ frisk an’ play
          When I was gay!

          A soldier’s dog don’t have much time ter whine,
          Like little pets a-howlin’ at th’ moon.
          A soldier’s dog is bound ter learn, right soon,
          That war is war, an’ what a steady line
          Of men in khaki means. (What, dogs don’t know?
          You bet they do! Jim-dog, he had ter go
          Along th’ trenches oftentimes at night;
          He seemed ter sense it when there was a fight
          A-brewin’. Oh, I guess he knew, all right!)
          I was a soldier, an’ Jim-dog was _mine_.

          Ah, what’s th’ use?
          There never was another dog like him.
          Why, on th’ march I’d pause and call, “Hey, Jim!”
          An’ he’d be there, his head tipped on one side,
          A-lookin’ up at me with love an’ pride,
          His tail a-waggin’, an’ his ears raised high....
          I wonder why my Jim-dog had ter die?
          He was a friend ter folks; he didn’t bite;
          He never snapped at no one in th’ night;
          He didn’t hate a soul; an’ he was _game_!
          An’ yet ... a spark o’light, a dartin’ flame
          Across th’ dark, a sneaky bit o’ lead,
          An’ he was ... dead!

          They say there ain’t no heaven-land fer him,
          ’Cause dogs is dogs, an’ haven’t any right;
          But let me tell yer this: without my Jim
          Th’ very shinin’ streets would seem less bright!
          An’ somehow I’m a-thinkin’ that if he
          Could come at that last stirrin’ bugle call
          Up to th’ gates o’ gold aside o’ me,
          Where God stands smilin’ welcome to us all,
          An’ I said: “Father, here’s my dog ... here’s Jim,”
          They’d find some corner, touched with love, fer him!




                           ------------------

                    The proceeds from the sale of
                    this book are donated to the
                    Blue Cross Society of France,
                    For the Protection and Care of
                    Animals. Duplicate copies may be
                    obtained for 25 cents each from
                    the publisher.

                    620 Broadway,      New York City

                           ------------------




                           TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE


Punctuation has been normalized. Orthography, hyphenation, and
variations therein, have been retained as they were in the original
publication.

Italicized phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
_underscores_.





End of Project Gutenberg's War Dogs of the World War, by John I. Anderson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR DOGS OF THE WORLD WAR ***

***** This file should be named 52934-0.txt or 52934-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/9/3/52934/

Produced by Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

